Hello everyone and welcome to part four of the solutions lectures for the stock market analysis project.
So this last part of the project focuses on cumulative returns.
So let's discuss what that actually means and then we'll head over to the Jupiter notebook and answer
those last few questions.
A cumulative return is the aggregate amount and investment has gained or lost over time independent
of the period of time involved.
So there's a little bit different than just the stock price of the current day because it's going to
take into account the daily returns.
Now keep in mind the simple calculation that we're going to be showing here doesn't take into account
stocks that give back a dividend.
So let's say that there is a stock ABC and that's actively being traded on some sort of exchange like
the New York Stock Exchange.
Now this company ABC has the falling prices correspondence that dates given.
So we can see here the first four days of the year 2018 the price goes $10 $15 $20 and $25.
So the thing we calculated earlier in the previous lecture was that daily percent return.
So that daily return is the profit or loss made by the stock compared to the previous day a value of
one would indicate a profit.
And similarly a value below 1 it would indicate a loss.
Now we actually expressed this as a percentage in order to convey the information a little bit better.
So when expressed as a percentage the value is above zero.
The stock has given you a profit.
Otherwise it's giving you a loss.
So for example if we have those four dates with the 10 15 20 25 the daily return is going to be in comparison
to its price of the previous day.
So the very first one we're just comparing it to itself so there's really no percent daily return there.
But for the next day when it jumped up to $15 we can see we had a 50 percent daily return.
The very next day when it jumps from 15 to 20 you get a 33 percent return then on that last day when
it jumps from 20 25 to a 20 percent return which makes sense because it's going up $5 every day but
everyday you have more money to start with see it 10 15 20 25.
Which is why your daily return starts going down.
So that's what we previously calculated.
So this brings us to the cumulative return while daily returns are useful.
It doesn't really give the investor an immediate insight into the gains that he or she had made till
the current date especially if the stock is very volatile.
So a cumulative return is computed relative to the day the investment was actually made.
If cumulative return is above 1 you're making a profit.
Otherwise you're still in the loss.
So what does a cumulative return looks like.
Is the following.
You have your same prices 10 15 20 25.
But if you bought in at the very first day at $10 the cumulative return is going to constantly be comparing
to the price that you actually bought into which is $10.
So you can see cumulative return is expressed as a percentage cheere 100 150 percent 200 percent 250
percent.
So that price keeps rising.
Comparison to that first day that you bought it.
You get that positive return.
So the formula for a cumulative daily return is the following and we'll see this and a better font.
And the actual Jupiter notebook but it's basically your investment is equal to one plus the return times
the investment team minus one.
So here we can see that we're just essentially multiplying our previous investment.
But T minus one by one plus our percent returns in Pavlos actually makes it really easy to compute if
it's Prod. method.
So it is it's a cumulative product method and we're going to be using that actually calculate this of
pandas so let's jump to the Jupiter notebook and actually code through this and answer those last couple
of questions.
I'll hop over to Jupiter notebook now.
Okay here I am at the Jupiter notebook and you can see here I'm at the last section on cumulative daily
returns and everything we just discuss right now here for you as well.
And as you can see here is kind of a better formatted version of that formula written in late latex
and we can also see the corresponding pand this code for it.
So we're going to do is create a cumulative return column for each car companies data frame and we essentially
do is just copy what's written here for you.
So zoom in one more level here and we're going to say Tesla data frame it's cumulative return it's going
to be equal to 1 added to the Tesla returns column that we created and then we're going to take the
cumulative product of it.
So what does it just return as a cumulative product over the requested access.
In this case we can just go with the default access.
So if we take a look at this and then call Tesla I can see the cumulative return here expressed as that
last column and what the cumulative return is doing.
It's comparing your Basically your cash out option at this particular day relative to the very first
day that we invested.
Assuming that we invested on January 3rd we can see that we would have lost until we actually reached
January 11.
That's when we have a positive Culina return the other way around to think about the daily returns our
original data column I can see just based off day to day.
So we start off negative negative negative and then positive from the previous day.
But still in reference to our original investment we would have still been at a loss until we sold on
the 11th.
So that's kind of the difference here.
You're taking into account the entire time period and the very first point that you invested so that's
for Tesla we're just going to kind of copy and paste that code for the other two data frames here as
we've been doing so.
Tesla we're going to change this to be forward and then we'll change this one as well to be forward
and we'll do the same for General Motors or GM over here.
And say GM OK.
So now we want to do is plot the cumulative return columns against the time series index in which stock
showed the highest return for $1 invested and which showed the lowest.
So all we need to do is actually just plot out the columns themselves will say Tesla grabbed that cumulative
return call in that we just created and then I'm going to plot it with the label Tesla we'll give it
a fixed size of 16 by 8 and then we're just going to do the same for Ford.
So I'll say Ford cumulative return plot that give it a label of Ford and then we'll say General Motors
cumulative return plot.
Give it a label and it's going to be General Motors.
And if I just say Pulte thought legend OK.
So if we run this we get this out and we can see here that clearly Tesla had the largest return cumulative
wise.
They all start off pretty similar but once Tesla starts jumping you can see that has a similar relationship
to its opening price.
If you want to see who had the lowest return you can see Ford here has a little bit below General Motors
now it's actually compare tests or a Ford and General Motors more closely we should probably just eliminate
Tesla.
So I can comment it out and then do this plot here that kind of shows a nicer plot we can change this
figure size so it's not so blurry that in here and there we can see the killer return between Ford and
General Motors because the Ford a little bit less than General Motors so had you invested $1 at the
very first time point and you sold at the very end of this it would have been back with like a dollar
and seventy cents for General Motors and Ford you would have been about a dollar and ten cents ish.
OK.
So everything we did for this project consisted of pretty basic analysis and really it was to review
the library so we covered in that first half of the course.
The second half the course we're going to focus a lot more on the actual algorithmic trading and the
financial analysis aspects of the course we're also going to really dive into functionality designed
specifically for time series so how do you actually analyze a time series using mathematics.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next section of the course.